# Denoising-Wavelets-TV-Regularization

Positron emission tomography (PET) is commonly used as an imaging technique in clinical settings by injecting a radioactive drug and measuring abnormal metabolic activity of tissues and organs. The ionization radiation used for medical imaging alters molecules within the cells, causing great harm to the body which often hampers its application in real life situations. Reduced dosages of radiation correspond to noisy PET images which translates to a loss of information. The motivation behind this research is to recover high quality statistics by denoising medical imaging corresponding to low dose scans. If important information can be recovered by reconstructing the PET images, radiation exposure can be reduced greatly. By improving the processes of denoising medical imaging, it is expected that radiation exposure can be reduced by about 10 times.

The first denoising method used was Haar Wavelets. Wavelet transformations decompose a signal into two parts: the approximation coefficients (low frequency) and detail coefficients (high frequency). For one dimensional wavelet transform, the signal is broken up into blocks of size 2 and the approximation coefficient is the sum of the block, and the detail coefficient is the difference of the block. This process can be repeated for several levels. In a two-dimensional setting, like one dimensional, the image is broken up into 2x2 blocks and computes one approximation coefficients and three detail coefficients. By applying a one-dimensional Haar wavelet transformation to the rows and columns of the image block we can obtain the approximation, vertical, horizontal, and diagonal detail coefficients. The inverse Haar wavelet transform is done by applying the one-dimensional Haar Transformation to the approximation, vertical, horizontal, and diagonal detail coefficients and dividing by image size (2x2). This process can be expanded to higher levels.
The Haar Wavelet algorithm first takes an image as input with depth=1 (since we are only doing 1-level Haar Wavelet Transform) and calculates the approximation coefficient, horizontal detail, vertical detail, and diagonal detail of the image. Next, the Inverse Haar Wavelet Transform inputs an image with depth=1 and calculates the Haar Wavelet transformation of the approximation coefficient, vertical, horizontal, and diagonal details found in the previous step and divides by 4 (since the image block is 2x2). The transformation breaks down the image into the different detail coefficients and shows the approximated coefficient.

The second denoising method used was total variation regularization. This process uses the Chambolle’s Projection algorithm to reduce the total variation of an image. Noisy images correspond to signals with high total variation, meaning the integral of the absolute image gradient is high. The function finds the L-2 norm (Euclidean distance) of the gradient of noisy image and the difference squared between the noisy and denoised image with some penalty term 𝜆. The coefficient estimates from the Haar Wavelet and Inverse Haar Wavelet transformation can approximate the TV norm of a noisy image. TV denoising can be applied directly to the coefficients found from wavelet transformation. In this algorithm, the output from the wavelet transformation is inputted into the TV Chambolle’s projection algorithm for each reduced dose. 
